Add process for Contributor Recommendation Letters (#297)
kubernetes/steering: operations/recommendations-letters.md

# Process for Contributor Recommendation Letters

The Kubernetes Steering Committee is committed to supporting the dedicated
contributors who drive our project forward. We are often asked to provide
letters of recommendation or statements of contribution for purposes such as
visa applications, immigration proceedings, or professional recognition.

This document outlines a formal, consistent, and scalable process for handling
these requests. Its purpose is to enable the Steering Committee to provide
meaningful support while upholding the integrity and accuracy of any statement
made on behalf of the Kubernetes project.

## Roles and Responsibilities

* **Applicant:** The Kubernetes contributor requesting the letter. They are
  responsible for initiating the request, drafting a letter with claims that are
  demonstrable via project artifacts (e.g., pull requests, design docs, meeting
  notes), and obtaining peer verification.

> * **Peer Verifier:** A recognized leader (e.g., chair, tech lead, subproject

Author: I tend to disagree on tie role to recognized leader, there are people that is recognized leaders on an area that does not hold a title of chair or teach lead, and in the other hand there are teach leads and chair that are still holding positions meanwhile they are absent for a long time and not well aware of existing developments

I want to avoid to be very prescriptive per the reasons mentioned in https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/pull/297#discussion_r2489397364, at the end it is in the steering members that evaluate the submissions , this tries to organize how the discussions goes and to avoid to set many rules, because if we set the rules , it will be most likely used to apply the letter of the law instead of the spirit of the law

   artifacts.

1. **A Peer Verification Document:** : This is a formal document (e.g., a shared
   document or a Markdown file) approved by at least one (ideally two) Peer
   Verifiers that validates the claims made in the draft letter. This document
   must contain:

  * A list of the specific claims or contributions made in the draft letter.
  * For each claim, one or more links to the specific artifacts that support it
    (e.g., pull requests, design documents, mailing list discussions, meeting
    notes).
  * A clear statement from each Peer Verifier confirming they have reviewed the
    claims against the provided artifacts and attest to their accuracy.

### Step 3: Committee Review, Signature, and Delivery

Upon receiving the materials, each committee member individually reviews the
draft letter and the peer verification.

* If a member has questions or requires clarification, they should raise them
directly with the Applicant, by responding to the email with submitted
materials, copying  <steering-private@kubernetes.io>. This ensures the entire
conversation history is maintained in a single thread.

> * Members who are satisfied with the letter's accuracy and tone proceed to sign

Reviewer: How are the signatures provided? electronically?

the document.

* The letter is considered officially approved once the [required majority] has
  signed it.

> 

Author: I suggest to keep the process simple, the approval criteria is clear, is signed by at least 4 members, whatever the existing members consider necessary ... for not approved I would also suggest to not be very prescriptive, we are setting a process to get more organized, but these decisions will impact different steering committees across the years that will need to handle different situations and social environments

> 

Reviewer 2: I assume we want to reach the approval, the only reason for not receiving one is not meeting the criteria. So it's not about rejection per se, but rather not meeting the criteria, in which case that's the answer the requester will receive.

## Appendix A: Template Response to Inquiries

```text
Subject: Re: Your Request for a Recommendation Letter

Hi [Applicant Name],

Thank you for reaching out to the Kubernetes Steering Committee. We are happy to
support you with your request for a recommendation letter.

To ensure the letter we provide is accurate, we follow a standard process described
in https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/operations/recommendations-letters.md

Please provide us with the following:

1. A Draft Letter: A document containing the specific facts and contributions
you would like us to highlight. All claims in the draft must be demonstrable
through public project artifacts.

2. A Peer Verification Document: To validate your draft, please create a
separate document. This document should list each major claim from your letter
and, next to each one, provide direct links to the artifacts that prove it
(e.g., pull requests, design docs, meeting notes).

Once you have created this verification document, please share it with one or

> two Tech Leads or maintainers from the areas you've contributed to. They will

Reviewer 2: let's use the same terms as earlier in the doc:
```suggestion
two recognized leaders from the areas you've contributed to. They will
```
